Refactor HA guide to refer to generic multi-site deployments (#31675)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/high-availability/deploy-aws-accelerator-loadbalancer.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/links.adoc" as links>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Deploy an AWS Global Accelerator loadbalancer"
summary="Building block for a loadbalancer"
tileVisible="false" >

This topic describes the procedure required to deploy an AWS global accelerator to route traffic between multi-site Keycloak deployments.

include::partials/blueprint-disclaimer.adoc[]

== Audience

> This guide describes how to deploy an AWS Global Accelerator instance to handle Keycloak client connection failover for multiple

Reviewer: This also applies to all other places, please review. The more or less only place where it is allowed is "Keycloak CR".

```suggestion
This guide describes how to deploy an AWS Global Accelerator instance to handle {project_name} client connection failover for multiple
```

availability-zone Keycloak deployments.

== Architecture

All Keycloak client requests are routed via an AWS Global Accelerator instance. It's the responsibility of the configured
accelerator to ensure that requests are routed to Keycloak clusters deployed in both availability-zones. Utilising an
AWS Global Accelerator prevents clients from erroneously caching IP addresses of failed Keycloak deployments which is

> possible with DNS based failover strategies.

Reviewer: We put more emphasis first on the concepts, and less on the specific implementation. 

The concepts it supports: Routing traffic between availability zones while keeping the same IP address for the clients on failover. The implementation that supports this on AWS happens to be the Global Accelerator.

Author: We actually didn't do this before with the Route53 docs, but I agree it's a better format :+1:

Reviewer: I know it is a new requirement, I hope you don't mind. If you would rather handle this in a follow-up PR, this is also fine.

                "ClientIPPreservationEnabled": false
            },
            {
                "EndpointId": "arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:eu-west-1:606671647913:loadbalancer/net/a1c76566e3c334e4ab7b762d9f8dcbcf/985941f9c8d108d4",
                "Weight": 128,
                "HealthState": "HEALTHY",
                "ClientIPPreservationEnabled": false
            }
        ],
        "TrafficDialPercentage": 100.0,
        "HealthCheckPort": 443,
        "HealthCheckProtocol": "TCP",
        "HealthCheckPath": "undefined",
        "HealthCheckIntervalSeconds": 30,
        "ThresholdCount": 3
    }
}
</#noparse>
----
+
. Update/Create Keycloak Deployment
+
Perform the following on each of the Keycloak clusters:
+
.. Login to the ROSA cluster
+
.. Ensure the Keycloak CR has the following configuration
+
[source,yaml]
----
<#noparse>
apiVersion: k8s.keycloak.org/v2alpha1
kind: Keycloak
metadata:
  name: keycloak
spec:
  hostname:
    hostname: $HOSTNAME # <1>
  ingress:
    enabled: false # <2>
</#noparse>
----
<1> The hostname clients use to connect to Keycloak
<2> Disable the default ingress as all Keycloak access should be via the provisioned NLB
+

> To ensure that request forwarding works as expected, it's necessary for the Keycloak CR to specify the hostname through

Reviewer: As usual, avoid contractions

```suggestion
To ensure that request forwarding works as expected, it is necessary for the Keycloak CR to specify the hostname through
```
